flights have been delayed some doctors
have stopped work and schools and
businesses across Israel have been hit
by a nationwide strike and protests
people are demanding that the government
secure the return of hostages still held
by Hamas the one-day strike was called
by the Trade union Federation histadrut
a court ordered the strike must end
around half an hour ago with organizers
saying workers had been ordered back to
work these latest protests began after
the bodies of six hostages were found in
a tunnel beneath Rafa in southern Gaza
the Israel Defense Forces say they were
killed shortly before troops reached
them on Saturday one of those found was
American Israeli hsh Goldberg pollen in
Jerusalem where people are holding a
procession from his home to the cemetery
where he will be buried uh we are seeing
evidence of the outpouring of uh feeling
that the government must do something to
secure the release of other hostages
well the impact of strikes uh aren't yet
isn't yet fully clear uh as we mentioned
flights have been delayed and diverted
at Israel's main airport benor and as
part of that action but several cities
and municipalities said they wouldn't
take part and the government said the
strike was
political uh it is affecting businesses
Banks and government Ministries and some
elementary and middle schools closed
earlier uh closed early while hospitals
and health clinics are running at a
reduced capacity major bus companies are
also taking part in action with roads
blocked by protesters Sunday night saw
tens of thousands of people protesting
across Israel calling for a hostage
release deal some accus prime Min
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his
government of not doing enough to bring
home those taken by Hamas it's not clear
how many hostages remain in Gaza Hamas
kidnapped 251 people and killed 1,00
others during its attack on October the
7th the Israeli military responded with
a ground and air offensive aiming to
destroy Hamas more than
40,700 people have been killed in Gaza
since then according to the Hamas run
Health Ministry well let's speak now to
our Middle East bureau chief Joe floto
who joins me from Jerusalem and Joe I
just wonder with the uh labor Court
ruling supposed to have taken effect a
short time ago ordering people uh to
stop their strike action what's actually
happening on the streets
look I think it's fair to say that this
strike while it was widespread and uh
affected pretty well every municipality
in the country was not as devastating as
those protesters really wanted last
night was undoubtedly a massive show of
grief and anger directed at the
government for not having concluded a
deal and one of the biggest protests
ever to take place in this country I
think uh but this morning we haven't
seen that momentum continue to the agree
that people would have wanted and as
such there's a question about how much
political pressure that is going to put
be putting on the government yeah that
is a key key question isn't it Joe how
much pressure does it put on will it
lead to some sort of change in in in
policy but I do see here that the
hostages and missing families Forum has
announced several more protests to take
place across Israel later on
today yeah they're determined to keep
this going and they're angry
as we saw last night is palpable
obviously uh the first degree of shock
and and condemnation goes to Hamas
that's a given for having uh murdered
the hostages under its care but many
people not all but many people in this
country feel that after nearly 11 months
of this conflict the government should
have done more to have concluded a deal
now the Prime Minister here says very
clearly the fact that these hostages
were killed shows that Hamas doesn't
want to deal and he is determined to
continue to what he calls total Victory
but several people within his own
Administration some of the hostage
negotiators who've been speaking
anonymously and other people within his
office say that he himself uh is trying
to block a deal that would leave Hamas
in any way
intact and because of that we're still
11 months into this conflict without a
hostage negotiation and without the
hundred or so who remain inside G are
both alive and dead on the Israeli side
being
released Joe thank you very much for
that Joe
floto and udie gorin is the cousin of
tal hamay who was killed on the 7th of
October and his body taken by Hamas Mr
Goran gave me his reaction to the
protests and strike as far as we're
concerned we the labor the labor Court
can decide whether we protest or whether
we strike or not I think it it really
does um uphold only to the unions and so
forth um and other businesses that
choose to abide by the court but I think
at this point in time when there is a
true very strong sentiment and I think
noga has put it very well there's a very
strong sentiment among the Israeli
public that this government does not
represent the vast majority of the
public in its decision not to have um
not to have a deal that would bring the
hostage is back then at this point I
think we are allowed to to do what we
think is right in order to do what is
right and that is saving people's lives
and udy you're joining us straight from
those protests give our viewers a sense
of what it feels like to be in the midst
of that today I'm actually joining you
right now from the knesset from the
Israeli Parliament where we hostage
families come every week to speak in the
different committees and speak to the
parliament members directly and try to
you know break some of these
um alliances that noga has describe and
influence the the the ministers and the
Parliament members this way and later on
there will be uh first of all there's
another funeral today we've had six
funerals in the past two days of the
hostages that were just murdered three
days ago and uh from the from the
funeral I'll be going to another protest
later tonight in front of the Prime
Minister in
home obviously we have reported on many
many protests by relatives of the
hostages and and the bereaved indeed uh
it hasn't caused the government so far
to change its Position will the action
today change that do you think I don't
think there's one specific action that
would change their mind I think that the
main thing is persistence and that is
true to any public campaign it's
persistence it's believing in what's
right it's believing in what we're doing
and I think that after 11 months of uh
of this war which is the longest Israel
has ever had and at this point where we
know where the divides are between
Israel and Hamas in terms of the deal
and we know that these gaps can be
bridged then we need to be saying this
over and over again and when I say we
it's not just the families we is the
Israeli public we is the foreign
governments that have to do with this
conflict that have influence over the
Israeli government that have influence
over Kamas we should all be saying
enough is enough we need to end this war
we need to save people's lives we need
to bring the hostages back and bring
some alleviation to the Gans and make
sure that we have an agreement that
secures Israel's future and make sure
that that October 7th does not happen
all over again and that has to do with a
regional uh with a regional deal that
would keep Israel safe and on the other
hand that we start building Gaza because
the gazans are also suffering
tremendously at this point in time and
the fates of these two people have been
linked for ages now and it's more
obvious than ever at this point in time
UD